docs: automatically generate markdown for experimental and deprecated flags (#6924)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/mimir/configure/about-versioning/index.md

---
aliases:

>   - ../configuring/about-versioning/
> description: Learn about guarantees for this Grafana Mimir major release.
> menuTitle: Versioning
> title: About Grafana Mimir versioning
> weight: 50
> ---
> 
> # About Grafana Mimir versioning
> 
> This topic describes our guarantees for this Grafana Mimir major release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - ../configuring/about-versioning/
description: Understand what major-release features are supported, unsupported, or experimental in Grafana Mimir.
menuTitle: Major-release features
title: Understand major-release features available in Mimir
weight: 50
---

# Understand major-release features available in Mimir

The features that follow are available in this major release of Mimir.
```

The file (and file name) seem to be inaccurate. Rather than covering a topic such as _Semantic versioning_, this page covers the state of feature coverage for a given major release.

## API Compatibility

Grafana Mimir strives to be 100% compatible with the Prometheus HTTP API which is by default served by endpoints with the /prometheus HTTP path prefix `/prometheus/*`.

We consider any deviation from this 100% API compatibility to be a bug, except for the following scenarios:

- Additional API endpoints for creating, removing, modifying alerts, and recording rules.
- Additional APIs that push metrics (under `/prometheus/api/push`).
- Additional API endpoints for management of Grafana Mimir, such as the ring. These APIs are not included in any compatibility guarantees.
- [Delete series API](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/#delete-series).

## Experimental features

Grafana Mimir is an actively developed project and we encourage the introduction of new features and capabilities.
Not everything in each release of Grafana Mimir is considered production-ready.
We mark as "Experimental" all features and flags that we don't consider production-ready.

We do not guarantee backwards compatibility for experimental features and flags.
Experimental configuration and flags are subject to change.

> The following features are currently experimental:

Reviewer 2: I don't love how this is formatted - would it be possible to emit a list of experimental flags, rather than the full config reference like this?

It would also be nice to be able to group experimental features together, something like this:

> - Set Retry-After header in recoverable error responses
>   - `-distributor.retry-after-header.enabled`
>   - `-distributor.retry-after-header.base-seconds`
>   - `-distributor.retry-after-header.max-backoff-exponent`

I imagine this will require adding some extra metadata to the flags alongside the `category:"experimental"` tag.

Author: Sounds like a good idea, I agree. I think we could group them like so:
```
Distributor
- distributor.retry-after-header.enabled
- distributor.retry-after-header.base-seconds
- distributor.retry-after-header.max-backoff-exponent
...
```

Perhaps with some descriptions, too.
But I'm not sure what you're imagining with regards to the metadata, could you elaborate what you had in mind?

Reviewer 3: > It would also be nice to be able to group experimental features together, something like this:

What if we simplify the grouping and extract the group name from the 1st segment of the CLI flag? For example, `-distributor.retry-after-header.enabled` group is `distributor` because extract from `-(distributor).retry-after-header.enabled`.

# STANDARD, REDUCED_REDUNDANCY, GLACIER, STANDARD_IA, ONEZONE_IA,
# INTELLIGENT_TIERING, DEEP_ARCHIVE, OUTPOSTS, GLACIER_IR, SNOW, EXPRESS_ONEZONE
# CLI flag: -<prefix>.s3.storage-class
[storage_class: <string> | default = ""]

# (experimental) If enabled, it will use the default authentication methods of
# the AWS SDK for go based on known environment variables and known AWS config
# files.
# CLI flag: -<prefix>.s3.native-aws-auth-enabled
[native_aws_auth_enabled: <boolean> | default = false]

# (experimental) The minimum file size in bytes used for multipart uploads. If
# 0, the value is optimally computed for each object.
# CLI flag: -<prefix>.s3.part-size
[part_size: <int> | default = 0]

# (experimental) If enabled, a Content-MD5 header is sent with S3 Put Object
# requests. Consumes more resources to compute the MD5, but may improve
# compatibility with object storage services that do not support checksums.
# CLI flag: -<prefix>.s3.send-content-md5
[send_content_md5: <boolean> | default = false]
```

## Deprecated features

Deprecated features are usable up until the release that indicates their removal.

> The following features or configuration parameters are currently deprecated and will be **removed in Mimir 2.11**:

Reviewer 2: Rather than having the reference to Mimir 2.11 in the docs template, what if we attached extra information to deprecated flags that specify when they were deprecated and when they'll be removed? Then we could generate this list without needing to change the template each release, and we can also easily check for any deprecated flags that should be removed in the next release.

I'm imagining something like this:

```go
DeprecatedIndexHeaderLazyLoadingIdleTimeout time.Duration `yaml:"index_header_lazy_loading_idle_timeout" category:"deprecated,since=2.10,remove_in=2.12"`
```

Reviewer: `since` is ambiguous to mean either `as_of` or `after`. Therefore, I recommend using `as_of` instead of `since`.

Reviewer: `remove_in` is an imperative to do something in the future. Is the intention to write this from today onward, or will this mostly be viewed from the future back in time? I recommend `removed_in`.

Reviewer 2: > `remove_in` is an imperative to do something in the future. Is the intention to write this from today onward, or will this mostly be viewed from the future back in time? I recommend `removed_in`, where one could read this as (to be) `removed_in`.

My intention with the `remove_in` / `removed_in` is to codify when we plan to remove the flag, so we'd be talking about future plans. (We usually deprecate a flag in release X, and remove it altogether in release X+2.)

So perhaps something like `expected_to_be_removed_in` or `planned_removed_in`? What do you think @osg-grafana?

Reviewer 4: > > `remove_in` is an imperative to do something in the future. Is the intention to write this from today onward, or will this mostly be viewed from the future back in time? I recommend `removed_in`, where one could read this as (to be) `removed_in`.
> 
> My intention with the `remove_in` / `removed_in` is to codify when we plan to remove the flag, so we'd be talking about future plans. (We usually deprecate a flag in release X, and remove it altogether in release X+2.)
> 
> So perhaps something like `expected_to_be_removed_in` or `planned_removed_in`? What do you think @osg-grafana?

Thank you for the clarification. Your intention matches my interpretation, so I recommend keeping as it is.
